distributed-sql: add introduction for dist-sql (#27)
tikv/deep-dive-tikv: src/distributed-sql/dist-sql.md

# Distributed SQL 

> Now we already know how the TiDB relational structure are encoded into the Key-Value form with versions.  In this section, we will focus on the following questions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By now we already know how TiDB's relational structure is encoded into a Key-Value form with versions. In this section, we will focus on the following questions:
```

* What happens when [TiDB] receives a SQL query?

> * How does [TiDB] excute SQL queries in a distributed way?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* How does [TiDB] execute SQL queries in a distributed way?
```

  
## What happens when [TiDB] receives a SQL query?

Firstly, let's have a look at the following example:

```

>    select count(*) from t where a + b  > 5;

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
SELECT count(*) FROM t WHERE a + b  > 5;
```

>    select count(*) from t where a + b  > 5;

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
select count(*) from t where a + b  > 5;
```

```

![Figure 1](images/select_from_tidb.png)

> As the above figure discribes, when [TiDB] receives a SQL query from the client, it will process according the following steps:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
As the above figure describes, when [TiDB] receives a SQL query from the client, it will process according to the following steps:
```

> As the above figure describes, when [TiDB] receives a SQL query from the client, it will process according the following steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As described in the above figure, when [TiDB] receives a SQL query from the client, it will process with the following steps:
```

1. [TiDB] receives a new SQL from the client.

> 2. [TiDB] prepares the process plans for this request, meanwhile [TiDB] get a tso from [PD] as the transaction's `start_ts`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. [TiDB] prepares the process plans for this request, meanwhile [TiDB] get a timestamp from [PD] as the transaction's `start_ts`.
```

The audience may not have the concept about "tso", so I think "timestamp" is easier to understand here.

> 2. [TiDB] prepares the process plans for this request, meanRegionswhile [TiDB] get a timestamp from [PD] as the transaction's `start_ts`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. [TiDB] prepares the processing plans for this request, meanwhile [TiDB] gets a timestamp from [PD] as the `start_ts` of this transaction.
```

> 3. [TiDB] tries to get information schema(meta data of the table) from TiKV.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. [TiDB] tries to get the information schema (metadata of the table) from TiKV.
```

> 3. [TiDB] tries to get information schema(meta data of the table) from cache, get from TiKV instead if it not exist.

Reviewer 3: There is something wrong in this sentence, but I don't know how to express it :(

> 4. [TiDB] prepares the related Regions for each related key according the infomation schema and SQL.Then [TiDB] will get the related Regions' information from [PD].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. [TiDB] prepares Regions for each related key according to the information schema and the SQL query. Then [TiDB] gets information for the related Regions from [PD].
```

> 4. [TiDB] prepares the related regions for each related key according the infomation schema and SQL.Then [TiDB] will get the related regions' information from [PD].

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
4. [TiDB] prepares the related Regions for each related key according to the information schema and SQL. Then [TiDB] will get the related Regions' information from [PD].
```

> 5. [TiDB] groups the related keys by region.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
5. [TiDB] groups the related keys by Region.
```

> 6. [TiDB] dispatches the tasks into the related TiKV concurrently.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
6. [TiDB] dispatches the tasks to the related TiKV concurrently.
```

> 7. [TiDB] reassembles the data and returns to the client.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. [TiDB] reassembles the data and returns the data to the client.
```

> 7. [TiDB] organize the data and return to the client.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
7. [TiDB] reassembles the data and returns to the client.
```

##  How does [TiDB] excute SQL queries in a distributed way?

> In short, [TiDB] will split the task by Regions and send them to TiKV concurrently.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In short, [TiDB] splits the task by Regions and sends them to TiKV concurrently.
```

> In short, [TiDB] will split the task by regions and send them to TiKV concurrently.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In short, [TiDB] will split the task by Regions and send them to TiKV concurrently.
```

> For the above example, we assume the rows with primary key of the table `t` is distributed in three Regions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the above example, we assume the rows with the primary key of table `t` are distributed in three Regions:
```

> For the above example, we assume the rows with primary key of the table `t` is distributed in three regions:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For the above example, we assume that the rows with the primary key of the table `t` are distributed in three Regions:
```

> * Rows with primary key in [0,100) are in region 1.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Rows with the primary key in [0,100) are in Region 1.
```

* Rows with primary key in [100,1000) are in region 2.
* Rows with primary key in [1000,~) are in region 3.

> Then we can just do `count` and sum the result from the above three Regions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now we can do `count` and sum the result from the above three Regions.
```

![Figure 2](images/coprocessor_select.png)

### Exectors

> Now we know [TiDB] will split the read task according to the Regions. Then how do the TiKV know what task should it do?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now we know [TiDB] splits a read task by Regions, but how does TiKV know what are its tasks to handle?
```

> Now we know [TiDB] will split the read task according to the regions. Then how do the TiKV know what task should it do?

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Now we know [TiDB] will split the read task according to the Regions. Then how do TiKV know what task should it do?
```

> Here [TiDB] will send TiKV a DAG (Directed Acyclic Graph) with each node is an executor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here [TiDB] will send a Directed Acyclic Graph (DAG) to TiKV with each node as an executor.
```

> Here [TiDB] will send TiKV a DAG(Directed Acyclic Graph) with each node is an executor.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Here [TiDB] will send TiKV a DAG (Directed Acyclic Graph) with each node as an executor.
```

![Figure 3](images/executors.jpg)

> Supportted executors:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Supported executors:
```

> * TableScan: It will scan the rows with the primary key from the KV store.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* TableScan: Scans the rows with the primary key from the KV store.
```

> * IndexScan: It will scan the index data from the KV store.

Reviewer 3: "index data" seems not intuitive.

Reviewer: Is "index" enough?

Reviewer 3: Well, no strong opinion here, maybe just keep it as it is.

> * Selection: It will do filter(mostly for `where`), and the input is always from `TableScan` or `IndexScan`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Selection: performs a filter (mostly for `where`). The input is `TableScan` or `IndexScan`.
```

> * Aggregation: It will do aggregation(e.g. `count(*)`,`sum(xxx)`), and the input could be one of `TableScan`,`IndexScan`,`Selection`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Aggregation: performs an aggregation (e.g. `count(*)`,`sum(xxx)`). The input is `TableScan`,`IndexScan`, or`Selection`.
```

> * Aggregation: It will do aggregation(exp `count(*)`,`sum(xxx)`), and the input could be one of `TableScan`,`IndexScan`,`Selection`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Aggregation: It will do aggregation (e.g. `count(*)`, `sum(xxx)`), and the input could be one of `TableScan`,`IndexScan`,`Selection`.
```

> * TopN: sorts the data and returns the top n matches, for example, `order by xxx limit 10`. The input is `TableScan`,`IndexScan`, or`Selection`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* TopN: sorts the data and returns the top n matches, for example, `ORDER BY xxx LIMIT 10`. The input is `TableScan`,`IndexScan`, or`Selection`.
```

> * TopN: It will order the data and return the top n like `order by xxx limit 10`, and the input could be one of  `TableScan`,`IndexScan`,`Selection`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* TopN: sorts the data and returns the top n matches, for example, `order by xxx limit 10`. The input is `TableScan`,`IndexScan`, or`Selection`.
```

![executors-example](images/executors-example.jpg)

> For the above example, we have the following executors on region 1:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the above example, we have the following executors on Region 1:
```

> *  Aggregation: count(*).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
*  Aggregation: `count(*)`.
```

> *  Selection: a + b > 5

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
*  Selection: `a + b > 5`
```

> *  TableScan: range:[0,100).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
*  TableScan: `range:[0,100)`.
```

### Expression

> We have executors as nodes in the Directed Acyclic Graph, then how to discribe the columns, constants and functions in the `Aggregation` or `Selection`? 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have executors as nodes in the DAG, but how do we describe columns, constants, and functions in an `Aggregation` or a `Selection`? 
```

> We have executors as node in the Directed Acyclic Graph, then how to discribe the columns, constants and functions in the `Aggregation` or `Selection`? 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We have executors as nodes in the Directed Acyclic Graph, then how to describe the columns, constants, and functions in the `Aggregation` or `Selection`? 
```

> There are three types of Expressions:

Reviewer: Can we use lowercased "expressions"

> * Column: which means a column in the table.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Column: a column in the table.
```

> * Constant: which means a constant, it could be string,int,duration, and so on.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Constant: a constant, which could be a string, int, duration, and so on.
```

> * Scalar function: which describe a function.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Scalar function: describes a function.
```

![Figure 4](images/expression.jpg)

> For the above example `select count(*) from t where a + b > 5`, we have:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For the above example `SELECT count(*) FROM t WHERE a + b > 5`, we have:
```

> * Column: a,b.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Column: a, b.
```
